My Class 6 Reading Notes

1. What Is Node.js?
There are plenty of definitions to be found online. Let’s take a look at a couple of the more popular ones. This is what the project’s home page has to say:

Node.js® is a JavaScript runtime built on Chrome’s V8 JavaScript engine.

And this is what Stack Overflow has to offer:

Node.js is an event-based, non-blocking, asynchronous I/O runtime that uses Google’s V8 JavaScript engine and libuv library.
"Quoting from the reading notes"

2. Node Is Built on Google Chrome’s V8 JavaScript Engine
The V8 engine is the open-source JavaScript engine that runs in Google Chrome and other Chromium-based web browsers, including Brave, Opera, and Vivaldi. It was designed with performance in mind and is responsible for compiling JavaScript directly to native machine code that your computer can execute.
"Quoting from the reading notes"

3. npm is the world's largest Software Registry.

The registry contains over 800,000 code packages.

Open-source developers use npm to share software.

Many organizations also use npm to manage private development.

4. Here is my npm version on my machine: 8.12.1

5. Here is my node version on my machine: v18.4.0

6. npm install jshint

7. Node allows developers to write JavaScript code that runs directly in a computer process itself instead of in a browser. Node can, therefore, be used to write server-side applications with access to the operating system, file system, and everything else required to build fully-functional applications.

8. 6 Reasons for Pair Programming
Iterative loops. Code reviews. Fast feedback. Error checking and linting. These are software engineering practices that have proven to dramatically improve the quality of code developers produce. What if you can could get all of this, instantaneously, while typing code line by line and character by character? You can, with pair programming, a technique common to many agile work environments.

More “two heads are better than one” than “stop reading over my shoulder,” pair programming is the practice of two developers sharing a single workstation to interactively tackle a coding task together. At Code Fellows, pair programing is one way we foster a collaborative environment while developing key industry skills.
"Quoting from the reading material"

9. Pair programming is an agile software development technique in which two programmers work together at one workstation. One, the driver, writes code while the other, the observer or navigator, reviews each line of code as it is typed in. The two programmers switch roles frequently.

For live access to my page, please visit the following link:
<https://github.com/timothee2022/My-Reading-Notes-Code-Fellows.git>